<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>I-Serve</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="note-style.css" />
</head>

<!-- Updated: Wed Dec 10 13:41:52 2008 by Jeff Dalton
-->

<body bgcolor="#ffffff">

<h1>I-Serve</h1>


<p><b>Main-program class:</b> <tt>ix.iserve.IServe</tt></p>


<p><b>Command-line arguments:</b></p>

<dl>

<dt><tt>-http-server-port=</tt><i>int</i></dt>
<dd>
  <p>Tells I-Serve what port to listen on for the requests it serves.
  If no port is specified, I-Serve uses 8080.  A port of 0 tells I-Serve
  to ask the OS for a free port.  The port number will be included in
  "Help" -&gt; "About I-X Server".</p>
</dd>

<dt><tt>-http-root-directory=</tt><i>filePath</i></dt>
<dt><tt>-http-root-directory=</tt><i>filePath</i><tt>:</tt><i>urlPath</i></dt>
<dd>
  <p>Specifies the root directory of a file tree that I-Serve will
  serve as "static content".  (You can, of course, put new files
  there while I-Serve is running, but the content is in the files
  rather than generated when a request is received.)  The <i>urlPath</i>
  defaults to "<tt>files</tt>".
  The URLs look like this:
  <blockquote>
    <tt>http://<i>iserveHost</i>:<i>iservePort</i>/<i>urlPath</i>/...</tt>
  </blockquote>
  where <i>iserveHost</i> and <i>iservePort</i> are replaced by the
  name of the machine that is running I-Serve and the port that I-Serve
  is using.
  </p>
</dd>

</dl>


<p><b>Description:</b></p>

<p>I-Serve is an I-X Process Panel (I-P2) that contains an HTTP
server.  The HTTP server can be used independently, in other agents.
For that, see the documentation for the
<a href="../javadoc/index.html?ix/util/http/package-summary.html"
>ix.util.http</a> package.   The HTTP server is also used by some
communication strategies.</p>


<p><b>Additional handlers:</b></p>

<dl>

<dt>
  <tt>add-servlet <i>class-name</i> (<i>parameter</i> ...)
                  <i>pathSpec</i></tt></dt>
<dd>
  <p>Constructs an instance of the specified servlet class by calling
  the most specific public constructor that is applicable to the
  specified parameters, and then adds that servlet to the HTTP server
  so that it will be invoked for requests that match the <i>pathSpec</i>.</p>
</dd>

</dl>


<hr/>
<small><address>Jeff Dalton &lt;J.Dalton@ed.ac.uk&gt;</address></small>
</body>
</html>
